EQPS-908: Devdocs for EQP MFTF Tests (#8663)
magento/devdocs: src/marketplace/sellers/mftf-magento.md

---
group: marketplace-sellers
title: MFTF Magento Supplied Tests
---

## Overview

> The Magento Functional Testing Framework Magento supplied Tests are a browser-based user acceptance testing framework used to validate the functionality of an operating Magento site. Running Magento supplied MFTF tests aids EQP QA efforts in assessing critical fucntionality of a Magento instance with the extension installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Magento Functional Testing Framework Magento supplied Tests are a browser-based user acceptance testing framework used to validate the functionality of an operating Magento site. Running Magento supplied MFTF tests aids EQP QA efforts in assessing critical functionality of a Magento instance with the extension installed.
```

## When testing is done

MFTF Magento supplied Tests will be run for all Marketplace extension submissions for:

-  Magento in 2.3 and 2.4 release lines
-  OpenSource and Commerce editions

## What is being checked

Magento supplied MFTF tests are a small set of Critical MFTF tests. These are tests which are part of the Magento MFTF codebase. The list of tests is under review and will be published when confirmed.

## Tools and environments used

The Magento test infrastructure will execute Magento supplied MFTF tests in the most up-to-date version of Magento in the 2.4.x and 2.3.x release lines, as well as the most up-to-date software compatible with that release. The test infrastructure follows the recommended setup for Magento installation and MFTF setup and configuration. You can use Magento Cloud Docker to create a similar environment.

## Reading the error report

-  MFTF returns two types of results
   -  Simplified results showing the status of each test executed
   -  Allure results (as XML)

>    -  See [MFTF Reporting](https://devdocs.magento.com/mftf/docs/reporting.html)  for further information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  See [MFTF Reporting](https://devdocs.magento.com/mftf/docs/reporting.html) for further information
```

-  Test failures will be due to either:

>    -  MFTF test flow being broken due to changes to Magento user flows as intended by the extension under test. These can be fixed by using Vendor-Supplied MFTF Tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  MFTF test flow being broken due to changes to Magento user flows as intended by the extension under test. These can be fixed by using vendor supplied MFTF Tests.
```

>    -  An failure in Magento user flows due to an unintended side-effect of the extension under test. This may be a type of regression bug and will be tested and verified by manual QA as part of EQP technical review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  A failure in Magento user flows due to an unintended side-effect of the extension under test. This may be a type of regression bug and will be tested and verified by manual QA as part of EQP technical review.
```

-  The Allure results returned to Marketplace can be downloaded and displayed as an Allure report for simple consumption and identification of failure points.

## Troubleshooting

-  Ensure that your tests generate, execute and pass in the specified environment configuration
-  Tests must be in the correct directory structure to be identified and executed
-  Within your extension, there must be a `Test` directory. This directory must contain an `Mftf` directory
-  MFTF within this directory should follow the standard directory structure, separating ActionGroups, Tests, Pages, Sections etc into their own directories

> -  Give that tests will be executed with Magento MFTF tests available for merging etc, please ensure that they will operate as expected in this configuration e.g. Ensure that test names do not clash with existing Magento tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Given that tests will be executed with Magento MFTF tests available for merging etc, please ensure that they will operate as expected in this configuration e.g. Ensure that test names do not clash with existing Magento tests
```

> -  Ensure that if you are extending from, or merging into, an existing Magento test (or relying upon it's entities), that it is required as a composer prerequisite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Ensure that if you are extending from, or merging into, an existing Magento test (or relying upon its entities), that it is required as a composer prerequisite
```

> -  Ensure that if you are extending from, or merging onto, an existing Magento test (or relying upon it's entities), that it is required as a composer prerequisite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Ensure that if you are extending from, or merging into, an existing Magento test (or relying upon it's entities), that it is required as a composer prerequisite
```

-  Remember that MFTF tests will be part of the final package that is made available to your customers

> -  Don't include any sensitive or confidential data in test comments or code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Do not include any sensitive or confidential data in test comments or code
```

Reviewer: This hasn't been fixed

---
group: marketplace-sellers
title: MFTF Vendor Supplied Tests
---

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty line

Reviewer: This hasn't been fixed

## Overview

> The Magento Functional Testing Framework Vendor-Supplied Tests are browser-based user acceptance testing framework used to validate the functionality on an operating Magento site. Running Vendor-Supplied MFTF tests helps ensure that the extension functionality is operating as expected for the end user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Magento Functional Testing Framework vendor supplied Tests are a browser-based user acceptance testing framework used to validate the functionality of an operating Magento site. Running Vendor-Supplied MFTF tests helps ensure that the extension functionality is operating as expected for the end user.
```

For information on how to setup, create and modify MFTF tests, see [MFTF Devdocs](https://devdocs.magento.com/mftf/docs/introduction.html)

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty line

## What testing is for

To ensure that Extension submissions perform the expected behavior for a user, MFTF tests are used to describe and confirm the functionality expected via browser-based testing against an operational Magento instance.

> MFTF runs tests in a browser, using Selenium and Codeception, to emulate user behavior. MFTF tests are designed to be extensible and be used in conjunction with Magento developed MFTF code coverage. This allows Vendor-Supplied extension MFTF tests to describe the behavior of the extension and to integrate with existing suites of MFTF coverage, leveraging reusable tests elements and modifying existing test flows as necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MFTF runs tests in a browser, using Selenium and Codeception, to emulate user behavior. MFTF tests are designed to be extensible and be used in conjunction with Magento developed MFTF code coverage. This allows vendor supplied, extension MFTF tests to describe the behavior of the extension and to integrate with existing suites of MFTF coverage, leveraging reusable tests elements and modifying existing test flows as necessary.
```

Functional testing in this way helps ensure that the experience of the end-user is as described and intended by the extension developer, allowing for the customizability and extensibility of Magento as a platform.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty line

## When testing is done

MFTF Vendor-Supplied Tests are run only where:

> -  There are MFTF tests included in the submission in the correct    directory ("Tests/Mftf")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  There are MFTF tests included in the submission in the correct directory (`Tests/Mftf`)
```

-  Only for MFTF v3.0 or greater
-  Only for Magento v2.4.0 or greater

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty line

## What is being checked

> Vendor-Supplied MFTF tests will be run on an installed Magento instance of the type listed above. These tests will help verify the functionality intended is testable and working on a Magento environment. The results of this testing can be used to inform Marketplace QA resources about the state of the extension, and what level of effort will be required in manually verifying the extension. A higher level of Vendor-supplied MFTF coverage will allow manual QA efforts to be focussed and potentially accelerate the progression of the extension through the Technical Review process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vendor supplied MFTF tests will be run on an installed Magento instance of the type listed above. These tests will help verify that the functionality intended is testable and working on a Magento environment. The results of this testing can be used to inform Marketplace QA resources about the state of the extension and what level of effort will be required in manually verifying the extension. A higher level of vendor supplied MFTF coverage will allow manual QA efforts to be focussed and potentially accelerate the progression of the extension through the Technical Review process.
```

## Tools and environments used

The Magento test infrastructure will execute Vendor-Supplied MFTF tests in the most up-to-date version of Magento in the 2.4.x release line, as well as the most up-to-date software compatible with that release. The test infrastructure follows the recommended setup for Magento installation and MFTF setup and configuration. You can use Magento Cloud Docker to create a similar environment.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty lines

## Reading the error report

> MFTF returns two types of results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MFTF returns two types of results:
```
Add extra line after and before list

1. Simplified results showing the status of each test executed

> 2. Allure results (as XML)

Reviewer: Numbered lists all have 1. for all items
```suggestion
1. Allure results (as XML)
```

> See [MFTF Reporting](https://devdocs.magento.com/mftf/docs/reporting.html) for further information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [MFTF Reporting](https://devdocs.magento.com/mftf/docs/reporting.html) for further information.
```

> To diagnose a test failure, you should first ascertain if you can replicate the failure in your local development environment. If you can not, this indicates a configuration and/or environment difference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To diagnose a test failure, you should first ascertain if you can replicate the failure on your local development environment. If you cannot, this indicates a configuration and/or environment difference.
```

The Allure results returned to Marketplace can be downloaded and displayed as an Allure report for simple consumption and identification of failure points. 
 

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty line

## Troubleshooting

> -  Ensure that your tests generate, execute and pass in the specified environment configuration

Reviewer: Remove empty lines between each item in this list.

-  Tests must be in the correct directory structure to be identified and executed

-  Within your extension, there must be a `Test` directory. This directory must contain an `Mftf` directory

> -  MFTF within this directory should follow the standard directory structure, separating ActionGroups, Tests, Pages, Sections etc into their own directories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  MFTF within this directory should follow the standard directory structure, separating ActionGroups, Tests, Pages, Sections etc, into their own directories
```

Reviewer: This hasn't been fixed

> -  Give that tests will be executed with Magento MFTF tests available for merging etc, please ensure that they will operate as expected in this configuration E.g. Ensure that test names do not clash with existing Magento tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Given that tests will be executed with Magento MFTF tests available for merging, please ensure that they will operate as expected in this configuration, e.g. Ensure that test names do not clash with existing Magento tests
```

> -  Ensure that if you are extending from, or merging onto, an existing Magento test (or relying upon it's entities), that it is required as a composer prerequisite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Ensure that if you are extending from, or merging into, an existing Magento test (or relying upon its entities), that it is required as a composer prerequisite
```

-  Remember that MFTF tests will be part of the final package that is made available to your customers

> -  Don't include any sensitive or confidential data in test comments or code

Reviewer: Avoid contractions
```suggestion
-  Do not include any sensitive or confidential data in test comments or code
```

> -  If necessary, include a README or other instructions, within the `Test` directory, to explain any setup steps or caveats on running your MFTF tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  If necessary, include a README, or other instructions, within the `Test` directory, to explain any setup steps or caveats on running your MFTF tests
```
